Good Morning John,
We had a great chat on the phone this week.
And I want to hit you with insights that
I feel like we have, we know, and we
talk about together. And we have
almost developed together over the years.
But I don’t know that we talk about it like--
each one of these led to the next.
And I think it’s useful. It’s been useful for me,
I think, but it’s hard to tell for sure.
Number 1, it is really hard, maybe impossible,
to stop wanting things. But also, is it
actually good to not want anything.
Like I want to want to live. I want to want to
make a better future for people. I don’t really
want to want a new car. But I do want to
want to spend time with my family.
So insight #1 is you can’t stop wanting,
and I’m not sure that I want to. Which leads
directly to insight #2, which is but maybe
you can help steer what you want.
This maybe is better stated as
“it is hard to control what you want.”
Like, you can’t do it through sheer
force of will, I can’t just say, “I want to stop
wanting Coca Cola, and I want to start
wanting to volunteer all the time.”
That’s what I want to want.
But I don’t want that. I want to drink
Coca Cola and watch Tik Toks.
But I have found there are things that
I can do to alter my wants.
Like if I want to work more on Crash Couse,
I have to think about education.
I have to listen to education podcasts,
and talk to people who are thinking hard
about how to make college more accessible.
The more time I spend engaging with those
questions, the more I actually want to do it.
And if I want to spend more time with
my family, I have to spend more time with
my family. Like, the more I do it the more
I want to do it. Because the more I do
it I’m teaching myself a story about the
value of those things. What I actually see
really often is people engaging with certain
kinds of content and not noticing how
it steers their wants. Like the content is
enjoyable, no doubt about that. But what
is it doing to my wants? Like there are a
lot of people who consume content about
how to be successful in business and
get rich. And when you consume that
content, you value being successful
in business and getting rich more.
And the more people who spend time
watching people play video games
professionally, the more people start to
value those particular skills, of professional
video game playing. And there are a lot of
people who engage with content about
how to be more beautiful. And the
more you engage with that content,
the more you value beauty.
Now this is just one of the ways that
you increase your want in something.
There’s two other big ones.
One is... it is good. It’s good to have money.
There is security there.
Playing video games is fun. Fashion
and makeup are art. And the second reason
is that we live in a society where these
things are really highly praised.
The barrier to wanting these things
is low, so we are more likely to be
interested in consuming that kind
of content. And I don’t think it’s wrong
to want these things, I do think it can be
limiting if it’s the only thing we allow
ourselves to want. Can we either
ignore those wants completely if we’re
not interested in them, or diversify from there?
And this is hard, because the barrier to
wanting something gets a lot higher when
society prizes it less. The less you engage
with a story, the harder it is to want that thing.
And if there aren’t a lot of stories about
that thing, it becomes really to want it.
And in a way, this means that the most
successful people in our society are kind of
the least interesting. They’re just really
good at going after the default thing that
society is telling them to want.
Sometimes those people can become
stories themselves that
alter societal wants overall.
But usually not. Which is all a way of
saying that if you prize just a little bit of
interesting or weird, if that’s the story you’re
into, which I am, then that’s like a
baseline story that you can always believe
in that prevents you from getting stuck
in these societal ruts. Not that I’m always
great at it. It’s very easy to get stuck
in there and very hard for me to steer
my not insubstantial want. But I’m going
to keep trying. Because I feel like I’m
getting better at it. And I feel like the
results are positive. John, I’ll
see you on Tuesday.